---
layout: post
title:  "FOSS4G 2017 Workshop"
description: "The 2017 FOSS4G workshop."
excerpt: "The 2017 FOSS4G workshop."
date:   2017-03-01T00:20:46-08:00
author: ePi Rational, Inc.
categories: [foss4g]
tags: [🎙️,🗺️]
---

# OpenMapTiles — A Random Walk in Boston with Open Street Maps in Your Pocket

<!-- # Workshop Title
* Title should be short and descriptive, summarizing the tutorial goals, workshop theme, and specific technologies covered. -->

##  Workshop Abstract and Description
This FOSS4G workshop will give you a (non-random) walk on how to use OpenMapTiles to create vector tiles
so that you can take a (random) walk through the City of Boston with your mobile device.

By the end of this workshop you will be able to create vector tiles of Boston and have it served
on a web server on your local computer.  

The OpenMapTiles project turns OpenStreetMap data into vector tiles.  Those vector tiles have great
value in their portability.  Vector tiles can be placed on a web server to serve to desktop or mobile devices over a cellular or local network.  And vector tiles can be embedded in a mobile app for offline use.

The applications of portable vector tiles are vast:  imagine an offline map of a backcountry hiking area with no data service.  Or, a museum or school that wants to display a map in a kiosk with the familiar touch screen interaction.  Vector tiles can also be turned into high resolution images for printing.

Our guide will walk you through how to use OpenStreetMap `.pbf` geo data files, with PostGIS, and Docker to create `.mbtiles` to serve up with `tileserver-gl`.  We will take these seemingly random terms and help you understand  OpenMapTiles.

Credit:  The OpenMapTiles project is a successor of OSM2VectorTiles, a project which won the OpenStreetMap innovation award of 2016 at SOtM with support from HSR Rapperswil in cooperation with Klokan Technologies GmbH.  RobLabs.com is not affiliated with either entity, but we are supporters of their work.

<!-- ##  Workshop Abstract and Description
* Abstract of no more than 250 words describing the proposed workshop. The abstract should be descriptive and include the topic, relevance, motivation and goals of the session, as well as pointers to past editions, if any. -->

### Workshop Length
This is designed as a four hour workshop, as well an advanced eight hour workshop can be created.
<!-- ### Workshop Length *
Most workshops are half-day (4 hour) and all provide hands-on experiences with participants following along with an instructor. We will consider a limited number of full day (8 hour) workshops. -->

### Basic Requirements
Designed for intermediate and advanced students.  This workshop requires knowledge of these prerequisites

* How to install Docker, and Node.js
* Basic Linux shell scripting (although its all possible on Windows, as well, we just know the Linux side better)
* Minimal knowledge of web servers.  We can show you what you need.

<!-- ### Basic Requirements
* Please provide a list of recommended or prerequisite skills that will be required to complete this workshop. If the workshop is for beginners, please be clear that there are no prerequisites. -->

### Workshop Outline

#### Boston OpenStreetMap to Vector Tiles

* Set up your workspace environment by downloading Docker tools, Node tools, and Boston OpenStreetMap data file
* Depending on the Operating System of the students, some of these items can be placed on a USB stick or local server
* Docker start up your PostGIS container
* Download an OpenStreetMap `.pbf` data file
* Docker import water polygons from OpenStreetMapData.com, and Natural Earth data for lower zoom levels
* Docker import the `.pbf` file into PostGIS
* Docker import custom SQL utilities, which are needed to create the vector tiles
* export a MBTiles file by passing a bounding box
* Serve up your tiles using `tileserver-gl-light`
* Desktop web Demo
* Mobile web demo

<!-- Workshop Outline
* Please provide a bullet point outline of your topics covered, proposed session itinerary, and takeaways. Please be as specific as -->
