---
layout: post
title:  "Joshua Tree — eπ Maps"
description: ""
apple_itunes_app: 1204080919
date:   2018-11-08T12:20:46-08:00
author: ePi Rational, Inc.
categories: [Mapbox, Paper Maps,]
tags: [Mapbox, Paper Maps]
excerpt: "Mobile map of Joshua Tree"
excerpt_img: "/assets/img/jotr-android.jpeg"
permalink: /jotr/
---

#### Features
Enjoy Joshua Tree National Park with our completely Offline map.

Features
* This eπ Map is completely offline.
* After downloading the app from the Apple App Store, then all map data (satellite, trails, hill shade) is offline.
* Use your GPS to see your location on the trail.
* Now with beautiful shaded relief.
* Topographic map with 40 feet contour intervals.
* When you have service, get park alerts from NPS.gov & local weather from Weather.gov.

What to see in the Park
* Camping at Hidden Valley, Ryan, Sheep Pass, Black Rock, Indian Cove, Belle, White Tower, Jumbo Rocks, and Cottonwood Springs
* Hiking on trails such as the California Riding & Hiking trail, Barker Dam trail, and Geology Road Tour, Boy Scout Trail
* Wilderness boundaries in the park for the Pinto Mountains, Sheephole Valley, and Joshua Tree Wildernesses

Your trip, your privacy
* Works offline without a network
* After the initial app download from the Apple App Store, no server is necessary
* We don't track your location
* We don't have analytics in our app
* We don't care where you go, we just want you to enjoy yourself safely

eπ Maps is powered by OpenGL with vector based maps built with Open Map Tiles, and hill shaded relief raster maps built with GDAL and WebP.

Available on the Apple App Store and Google Play Store

* Available [in the Apple App Store][ios]
* Available [in the Google Play Store][android]

<iframe allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"
  style="height: 75vh; width: 95vw;"  
  src="/epi-maps.html?z=16.9&style=jotr&w=-127.7817&s=30.417&e=-107.113&n=36.88&t=JoTr&authkey=278314/#9.59/33.8413/-115.877">
  <p>Your browser does not support iframes.</p>
</iframe>

---

[ios]:      https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/joshua-tree-eπ-maps/id1204080919?mt=8
[android]:  /android

[tsg]:  http://www.timestampgenerator.com
